
# Setting up the Development Environment

Think of a good name for your environment that you will remember. We refer to it as `<my_env>` -- replace this with whatever you prefer.

We are using Python 3.11 because some libraries do not work well with the latest version. For example, the Ray framework currently does not support versions higher than 3.11.

Follow these steps in the bash shell:

1. Create the Conda Environment:

     ```bash
     conda create -n <my_env> python=3.11
     ```

2. Activate the Conda Environment:

     ```bash
     conda activate <my_env>
     ```

3. Install Project Dependencies after entering the project's root folder (namely, after running `cd <project_root_folder>`):

     ```bash
     pip install -e .
     ```

4. Download and Set Up Visual Studio Code:
     - Download Visual Studio Code from the [official website](https://code.visualstudio.com/download).
     - Install the Python extensions.

5. Open Your Project in Visual Studio Code:
     - Open Visual Studio Code and load the `mlops` folder (the project's root folder).

6. Select the Python Interpreter:
     - Open the Command Palette under the `View` menu.
     - Type "Select Python Interpreter" and choose the `<my_env>` Conda environment.

7. You're Ready to Run Python Code.

8. If Working on a Remote Machine:
     - If your code is on a remote machine, SSH into the remote machine via the Command Palette (after step 4) before continuing with steps 5 onward.

9. Serve Documentation Locally:
     - Running `mkdocs serve` on the command line will bring up this documentation on port `8000`.
